---
layout: single
title: "What is a day trade?"
date: 2018-02-15 19:08:24 -0400
categories: finance
published: true
---

According to [FINRA](http://www.finra.org/), a "day trade" is opening and then closing the same position in the same security during the same day. This can be opening a long position (buying) and then closing the position (selling) or it can be opening a short position (selling short) and then closing by buying to cover. This can be a little confusing at first, but the thing to remember is that day trades are counted based on opening transactions. “Same day” also includes both regular and extended trading hours, so anything you do pre-market or after-hours counts.

Here’s some scenarios that might make it easier to understand:

**One Buy order followed by two Sell orders = 1 Day Trade**
> You purchase 20 shares of GOOG and then sell the 20 shares during the day in two separate 10-share orders. It counts as one day trade because although you had two closing transactions, you were closing a single position.

**Two Buy orders followed by one Sell order = 2 Day Trades**
> You purchase 10 shares of GOOG and then a bit later your purchase another 10 shares. You then sell all 20 shares in a single transaction. This counts as two day trades because although you had a single sell order, you were closing two opening transactions with it. If you were to sell 15 shares, instead, it would still count as two day trades even though you did not fully close the second position. Those five shares still counted as a day trade.

**One Short Sale followed by two Buy Orders to Cover = 1 Day Trade**
> This is still only one day trade because there was only a single opening transaction (the short sale).

**Two short sales followed by one Buy Order to Cover = 2 Day Trades**
> Got the hang of this, yet?

**Three Buy orders followed by one Sell order = ? Day Trades**
> Here’s a corner case - you buy 2 shares of GOOG, then another 8 shares, then 20 more shares. Then you sell 20 shares. Is this one day trade? Is it two day trades? Nope! It counts as three day trades because the closing transaction is always paired with the opening transactions in chronological order. When the sell order executed, it sold the 2 shares, then the 8 shares, then 10 of the 20 shares of the final transaction.